# Jail
--

    import "github.com/status-im/status-go/geth/jail"

go:generate godocdown -heading Title -o README.md

Package jail implements "jailed" enviroment for executing arbitrary JavaScript
code using Otto JS interpreter (https://github.com/robertkrimen/otto).

Jail create multiple Cells, one cell per status client chat. Each cell runs own
Otto virtual machine and lives forever, but that may change in the future.

    +----------------------------------------------+
    |                     Jail                     |
    +----------------------------------------------+
    +---------+ +---------+ +---------+  +---------+
    |  Cell   | |  Cell   | |  Cell   |  |  Cell   |
    |ChatID 1 | |ChatID 2 | |ChatID 3 |  |ChatID N |
    |+-------+| |+-------+| |+-------+|  |+-------+|
    ||Otto VM|| ||Otto VM|| ||Otto VM||  ||Otto VM||
    |+-------+| |+-------+| |+-------+|  |+-------+|
    || Loop  || || Loop  || || Loop  ||  || Loop  ||
    ++-------++ ++-------++ ++-------++  ++-------++


### Cells

Each Cell object embeds *VM from 'jail/vm' for concurrency safe wrapper around
*otto.VM functions. This important when dealing with setTimeout and Fetch API
functions (see below).


### Get and Set

(*VM).Get/Set functions provide transparent and concurrently safe wrappers for
Otto VM Get and Set functions respectively. See Otto documentation for usage
examples: https://godoc.org/github.com/robertkrimen/otto


### Call and Run

(*VM).Call/Run functions allows executing arbitrary JS in the cell. They're also
wrappers arount Otto VM functions of the same name. Run accepts raw JS strings
for execution, Call takes a JS function name (defined in VM) and parameters.


### Timeouts and intervals support

Default Otto VM interpreter doesn't support setTimeout()/setInterval() JS
functions, because they're not part of ECMA-262 spec, but properties of the
window object in browser. We add support for them using
http://github.com/status-im/ottoext/timers and
http://github.com/status-im/ottoext/loop packages.

Each cell starts a new loop in a separate goroutine, registers functions for
setTimeout/setInterval calls and associate them with this loop. All JS code
executed as callback to setTimeout/setInterval will be handled by this loop.

For example, following code:

    cell.Run(`setTimeout(function(){ value = "42" }, 2000);`)

will execute setTimeout and return immidiately, but callback function will be
executed after 2 seconds in the loop that was started upon current cell.

In order to capture response one may use following approach:

    err = cell.Set("__captureResponse", func(val string) otto.Value {
    	fmt.Println("Captured response from callback:", val)
    	return otto.UndefinedValue()
    })
    cell.Run(`setTimeout(function(){ __captureResponse("OK") }, 2000);`)


### Fetch support

Fetch API is implemented using http://github.com/status-im/ottoext/fetch
package. When Cell is created, corresponding handlers are registered within VM
and associated event loop.

Due to asynchronous nature of Fetch API, the following code will return
immediately:

    cell.Run(`fetch('http://example.com/').then(function(data) { ... })`)

### and callback function in a promise will be executed in a event loop in the
backgrounds. Thus, it's user responsibility to register a corresponding callback
function before:

    cell.Set("__captureSuccess", func(res otto.Value) { ... })

    cell.Run(`fetch('http://example.com').then(function(r) {
    	return r.text()
    }).then(function(data) {
    	// user code
    	__captureSuccess(data)
    }))
